oh ! what a lovely war summarises and comments on the events of world war i using popular songs of the time , many of which were parodies of older popular songs , and using allegorical settings such as brighton 's west pier to criticise the manner in which the eventual victory was won an unnamed photographer takes a picture of europe 's rulers – after handing two red poppies to the archduke ferdinand and his wife , the duchess of hohenberg , he takes their picture , '' assassinating '' them as the flash goes off the protagonists are an archetypal british family of the time , the smiths , who are shown entering brighton 's west pier , with general haig selling tickets – the film later follows the young smith men through their experiences in the trenches when the casualties start to mount , a theatre audience is rallied by singing '' are we downhearted ? no ! '' a chorus line dressed in frilled yellow dresses , recruits kitchener 's army with '' we do n't want to lose you , but we think you ought to go '' a music hall star ( maggie smith ) then enters a lone spotlight , and lures the still doubtful young men in the audience into '' taking the king 's shilling '' by singing about how every day she '' walks out '' with different men in uniform , and that '' on saturday i 'm willing , if you 'll only take the shilling , to i 'll make a man of you '' the young men take to the stage and are quickly moved offstage and into military life , and the initially alluring music hall singer is depicted on close-up as a coarse , over-made-up harridan '' there 's a long , long trail a-winding '' captures the new mood of despair , depicting soldiers filing along in torrential rain in miserable conditions at the end of the year , amidst more manoeuvres in the pavilion , general ( later field marshal ) douglas haig replaces field marshal sir john french as commander-in-chief of the british forces a priest tells the gathered soldiers that each religion has endorsed the war by way of allowing soldiers to eat pork if jewish , meat on fridays if catholic , and work through the sabbath if in service of the war for all religions the songs contain contrasting tones of wistfulness , stoicism and resignation , including '' the bells of hell go ting-a-ling-a-ling '' , '' if the sergeant steals your rum , never mind '' and '' hanging on the old barbed wire '' the americans arrive , but are shown only in the '' disconnected reality '' of the pavilion , interrupting the deliberations of the british generals by singing '' over there '' with the changed final line : '' and we wo n't come back – we 'll be buried over there ! '' the resolute-looking american captain seizes the map from an astonished haig jack finally finds himself on a tranquil hillside , where he joins his friends for a lie down on the grass , where their figures morph into crosses the film closes with a long slow pan out that ends in a dizzying aerial view of countless soldiers ' graves , as the voices of the dead sing '' we 'll never tell them '' ( a parody of the jerome kern song '' they did n't believe me '' ) at bertrand russell ’ s suggestion , paul mccartney met with the producer len deighton to discuss the opportunity of the band portraying the smith family although in the end it was not possible to arrange the producers were the novelist len deighton , photographer brian duffy and richard attenborough , who was making his directorial debut deighton wrote the screenplay for oh ! what a lovely war and the opening title sequence was created by len deighton 's lifelong friend raymond hawkey , the designer responsible for many of deighton 's book covers in the 1960s : as soon as reveille is gone : we feel just as heavy as lead , : but we never get up till the sergeant brings : our breakfast up to bed : oh ! oh ! oh ! it 's a lovely war , : what do we want with eggs and ham : when we 've got plum and apple jam ? : form fours ! right turn ! : how shall we spend the money we earn ? : oh ! oh ! oh ! it 's a lovely war '' gene siskel of the chicago tribune also gave the film a perfect grade of 4 stars and wrote it '' deserves an academy award nomination for the best picture of the year bbc radio 4 's 15 minute musical portrayed tony blair 's premiership in the style of oh ! what a lovely war in a september 2006 episode entitled '' oh ! what a lovely blair '' 