2001-11-07 : if you look at a chart of the international phonetic alphabet ( see under pulmonary consonants , there are several combinations of features not given ipa symbols , but not marked as impossible either bilabial tap and approximant , labiodental plosive , trill and tap , retroflex trill and lateral fricative , etc -- user : sjk 2002-03-17 : as i understand it & trade ; , these were omitted from the chart because at the time of publishing , they had not been documented as phonemes in human languages , or at least are extremely rare however , some of this is now out of date - for example , there are some documented adamawan and ubangan languages that have a phonemeic labiodental flap , as well as several sudanic languages that have a nonphonemic labiodental flap ) pgdudda -- -- what is the best way to view the upcoming leonids meteor shower ? will everyone be able to see it ? might it be a dud ? ( posted nov ) : it 's too late now , but the best way to view it was simply go somewhere outdoors , not cloudy , and dark , at the right time , and bring a motas : ) i had the first four , but not the last , and it was still pretty spectacular -- robert merkel -- -- what is the cause of halos around the moon ? i found an answer here : this is a nasa page did anything come of this ? ( oct 6 2001 ) -- ( i do n't think so , but maybe you are thinking of the secret foreign intelligence surveillance court ) ) for an indirect answer , see the article on uralic languages , to which finnish and hungarian belong -- -- why do joint pop ? why do knuckles and backs crack ? is it dangerous to constantly crack knuckles or backs ? ( not sure what article this would be answered in.one called '' joint '' ? maybe not ? ) ( posted june 26 ) : answer , 16 july : you would still need some apparatus to turn the energy that is focused by your magnifying glass into a usable form of energy , like electricity once you have found a way to do that , you will probably realise that you get at least as much energy , with less difficulties and less space use , with an array of solar collectors the size of your original magnifying glass : this one you would put in a ( probably very long ) article about alternative energy , or about magnifying glasses , or power generation ( or should that be electrical generation ) 