greek and latin intellectuals as well as the modistae have contributed to the different perspectives of interjections in language throughout history they thought interjections modified the verb much in the same way as adverbs do , thus interjections were closely connected to verbs unlike their greek counterparts , many latin scholars took the position that interjections did not rely on verbs and were used to communicate emotions and abstract ideas they considered interjections to be their own independent part of speech some , such as thomas of erfurt , agreed with the former greeks that the interjection was closely tied to the verb while others like siger of courtrai held that the interjection was its own part of speech syntactically , much like the latin scholars in contrast to typical words and sentences , the function of most interjections is related to an expression of feeling , rather than representing some idea or concept cognitive interjections express feelings which are more related to cognition , or information known to the speaker of the utterance ( e.g while there exists some apparent overlap between emotive and cognitive interjections , as both express a feeling , cognitive interjections can be seen as more related to knowledge of something ( i.e a common distinction is based on relations to other word categories : primary interjections are interjections first and foremost ( examples : oops , ouch ! , huh ? ) , while secondary interjections are words from other categories that come to be used as interjections in virtue of their meaning ( examples : damn ! , hell ! ) primary interjections are generally considered to be single words ( oh ! , wow ! ) although secondary interjections tend to interact more with the words around them , a characteristic of all interjections—whether primary or secondary—is that they can stand alone for example , it is possible to utter an interjection like ouch ! or bloody hell ! on its own , whereas a different part of speech that may seem similar in function and length , such as the conjunction and , can not be uttered alone ( you ca n't just say and ! independently in english ) similarly , the interjection '' ouch ! '' generally expresses pain , but also requires contextual information for the listener to determine the referent of the expression ( i.e for instance , the english interjections gee and wow have no direct equivalent in polish , and the closest equivalent for polish ' fu ' ( an interjection of disgust ) is the different sounding ' yuck ! ' aizuchi discourse marker filler ( linguistics ) list of interjections by language at wiktionary english interjections at wiktionary : category : interjections words without vowels 