theory of everything : is there a theory which explains the values of all fundamental physical constants , i.e , of all coupling constants , all elementary particle masses and all mixing angles of elementary particles ? is there a theory which explains why the gauge groups of the standard model are as they are , and why observed spacetime has 3 spatial dimensions and 1 temporal dimension ? are '' fundamental physical constants '' really fundamental or do they vary over time ? are any of the fundamental particles in the standard model of particle physics actually composite particles too tightly bound to observe as such at current experimental energies ? are there elementary particles that have not yet been observed , and , if so , which ones are they and what are their properties ? are there fifth force ? arrow of time ( e.g can a multiverse resolve it ? yang–mills theory : given an arbitrary compact gauge group , does a non-trivial quantum yang–mills theory with a finite mass gap exist ? ( this problem is also listed as one of the millennium prize problems in mathematics ) color confinement : the quantum chromodynamics ( qcd ) color confinement conjecture is that color charged particles ( such as quarks and gluons ) can not be separated from their parent hadron without producing new hadrons is it possible to provide an analytic proof of color confinement in any non-abelian gauge theory ? dimensionless physical constant : at the present time , the values of the dimensionless physical constants can not be calculated ; they are determined only by physical measurement what is the minimum number of dimensionless physical constants from which all other dimensionless physical constants can be derived ? are dimensional physical constants necessary at all ? fine-tuned universe : the values of the fundamental physical constants are in a narrow range necessary to support carbon-based life 7 , 269 , 1989 , is this because there exist multiverse with different constants , or are our universe 's constants the result of chance , or some other factor or process ? in particular , tegmark 's mathematical universe hypothesis of abstract mathematics parallel universe formalized models , and the string theory landscape of spacetime regions having different formalized sets of laws and physical constants from that of the surrounding space—require formalization quantum field theory : is it possible to construct , in the mathematically rigorous framework of algebraic qft , a theory in 4-dimensional spacetime that includes interactions and does not resort to perturbative methods ? locality : are there non-local phenomena in quantum physics ? if they exist , are non-local phenomena limited to the entanglement revealed in the violations of the bell 's theorem , or can information and conserved quantities also move in a non-local way ? under what circumstances are non-local phenomena observed ? what does the existence or absence of non-local phenomena imply about the fundamental structure of spacetime ? how does this elucidate the proper interpretation of the fundamental nature of quantum physics ? extra dimensions : does nature have more than four spacetime dimensions ? if so , what is their size ? are dimensions a fundamental property of the universe or an emergent result of other physical laws ? can we experimentally observe evidence of higher spatial dimensions ? hierarchy problem : why is gravity such a weak force ? it becomes strong for particles only at the planck mass , around 10 gev , much above the electroweak scale ( 100 gev , the energy scale dominating physics at low energies ) neutron lifetime puzzle : while the neutron lifetime has been studied for decades , there currently exists a lack of consilience on its exact value , due to different results from two experimental methods ( '' bottle '' versus '' beam '' ) turbulence : is it possible to make a theoretical model to describe the statistics of a turbulent flow ( in particular , its internal structures ) ? upstream contamination : when pouring water from a higher container to a lower one , particles floating in the latter can climb upstream into the upper container high-temperature superconductors : what is the mechanism that causes certain materials to exhibit superconductivity at temperatures much higher than around 25 kelvins ? is it possible to make a material that is a superconductor at room temperature and atmospheric pressure ? amorphous solids : what is the nature of the glass transition between a fluid or regular solid and a glassy phase ? what are the physical processes giving rise to the general properties of glasses and the glass transition ? cryogenic electron emission : why does the electron emission in the absence of light increase as the temperature of a photomultiplier is decreased ? cryogenic electron emission phenomenon has no known physics explanation stochasticity and robustness to noise in gene expression : how do genes govern our body , withstanding different external pressures and internal stochasticity ? certain models exist for genetic processes , but we are far from understanding the whole picture , in particular in development where gene expression must be tightly regulated 