. yhoo.client.shareholder.com the site was a web directory , organized in a hierarchy , as opposed to a searchable index of pages in march 1994 , '' jerry and david 's guide to the world wide web '' was renamed '' yahoo ! '' the human-edited yahoo ! directory , provided for users to surf through the internet , became their first product and the company 's original purpose the word '' yahoo '' is a backronym for '' yet another hierarchically organized oracle '' or '' yet another hierarchical officious oracle '' this allowed users to search yahoo ! directory yahoo soon became the first popular online directory and search engine on the world wide web like many search engines and web directories , yahoo added a web portal , putting it in competition with services like excite , lycos and america online yahoo began offering free e-mail from october 1997 after the acquisition of rocketmail , which was then renamed to yahoo ! mail in 1998 , yahoo decided to replace altavista as the crawler-based search engine underlying the directory with inktomi yahoo began using google for search in june 2000 over the next four years , it developed its own search technologies , which it began using in 2004 partly using technology from its 280 million acquisition of inktomi in 2002 in response to google 's gmail , yahoo began to offer unlimited email storage in 2007 in february 2008 , microsoft made an unsolicited bid to acquire yahoo ! for 44.6 billion in september 2011 , she was removed from her position at yahoo by the company 's chairman roy bostock , and cfo tim morse was named as interim ceo of the company in early 2012 , after the appointment of scott thompson as ceo , rumors began to spread about looming layoffs several key executives left , including chief product officer blake irving on april 4 , 2012 , yahoo announced a cut of 2,000 jobs , or about 14 percent of its 14,100 workers in an email sent to employees in april 2012 , thompson reiterated his view that customers should come first at yahoo on may 19 , 2013 yahoo ! announced the 1.1 billion acquisition of blogging site tumblr the wall street journal stated that the purchase of tumblr would satisfy yahoo 's need for '' a thriving social-networking and communications hub yahoo plans splashy new san francisco digs ( and neon billboard dreams ) – kara swisher – news on july 25 , 2016 , verizon communications announced the acquisition of yahoo 's core internet business for 4.83 billion following the conclusion of the purchase , these assets merged with aol to form a new entity known as oath inc on june 13 , 2017 ; yahoo , aol , and huffpost were to continue operating under their own names , under the oath inc the deal excluded yahoo 's 15 % stake in alibaba group and 35.5 % stake in yahoo ! japan the united states have indicted four men , including two employees of russia 's federal security service ( fsb ) , for their involvement in the hack the company stated that hackers had utilized stolen internal software to forge http cookies in response to these breaches , bloomberg news reported that verizon was attempting to re-negotiate the deal to reduce the purchase price by 250 million , causing a 2 % increase in yahoo stock prices on february 21 , 2017 , verizon agreed to lower its purchase price for yahoo by 350 million , and share liabilities regarding the investigation into the data breaches , a subsidiary of verizon , stated that all yahoo user accounts , some 3 billion , were affected by the august 2013 theft '' yahoo ! name changed to 'altaba inc in october 2020 , altaba made a liquidating distribution to its shareholders the portal also gives users access to other yahoo services including yahoo ! search , yahoo ! mail , and yahoo ! finance yahoo partners with numerous content providers in products such as yahoo sports , yahoo ! finance , yahoo movies , yahoo weather , yahoo ! news , yahoo ! answers to provide news and related content ( via prodigy , bellsouth & sbc ) , verizon communications , rogers communications , and british telecom , offering a range of free and premium yahoo content and services to subscribers yahoo mobile , a mobile virtual network operator in japan , offers services for email , instant messaging , and mobile blogging , as well as information services , searches and alerts yahoo introduced its internet search system , called onesearch , for mobile phones on march 20 , 2007 the results include news headlines , images from flickr , business listings , local weather and links to other sites a zip code or city name is required for onesearch to start delivering local search results yahoo auctions were discontinued in 2007 except for asia yahoo ! gemini provides services such as sponsored search , local advertising and product/travel/directory submit that let different businesses advertise their products and services on the yahoo network yahoo launched its panama internet advertisement sales system in the fourth quarter of 2006 it allows advertisers to bid for search terms to trigger their ads on search results pages through panama , yahoo aims to provide more relevant search results to users , a better overall experience , and to increase monetization in july 2009 , yahoo agreed to use microsoft as exclusive technology provider for its search services while microsoft provided contextual advertising to yahoo on a non-exclusive basis yahoo was the exclusive worldwide relationship sales force for yahoo 's and microsoft 's premium search advertisers in september 2011 , yahoo formed an ad selling strategic partnership with two of its top competitors , aol and microsoft the wall street journal reported that yahoo plans to mimic this strategy used by rival facebook inc yahoo ! games yahoo ! music yahoo ! directory kelkoo group is a european price comparison tool that was acquired by yahoo ! in 2004 and sold in 2008 yahoo yahoo was sued by parties seeking to prevent french citizens from purchasing memorabilia relating to the nazi party on august 7 , 2013 , at around midnight edt , yahoo announced that the final version of the new logo would be revealed on september 5 , 2013 at 4:00 & nbsp ; a.m the redesign allows users to tailor a homepage with widgets that access features such as email accounts , calendars , flickr and other yahoo content , and internet content file : yahoo logo.svg yahoo 's fourth logo , january 1996–september 2013 file : yahoo ! ( 2013 ) 