traven 's novel the treasure of the sierra madre ( 1927 ) : the line was popularized by john huston 's 1948 film adaptation of the novel , which was altered from its content in the novel to meet the motion picture production code regulations severely limiting profanity in film teenage mutant ninja turtles adventures 19 ( april 1991 ) in the teenage mutant ninja turtles series from image comics , donatello paraphrases a variation of that sentence ( '' plans ? ! i do n't need no stinking plans ! '' ) whilst using his cyborg systems to restore a stripped-down aircar in mel brooks 's western blazing saddles ( 1974 ) , the line was delivered as '' badges ? we do n't need no stinking badges '' in charles swenson 's animated film down and dirty duck ( 1974 ) , a stereotypical mexican mouse character , wearing a sombrero and a bandolier ( probably in a parody of speedy gonzales ) , speaks the line as '' i do n't want your stinkin ' badges ! '' in the film the ninth configuration ( 1980 ) , when the asylum patients are quoting lines from movies , one quotes '' badges ? we do n't need no stinking badges '' in the '' weird al '' yankovic film uhf ( 1989 ) , when animal show host raul ( trinidad silva ) is asked to take a consignment of badgers , he says '' badgers ? badgers ? ! we do n't need no stinking badgers ! '' in the film flashback ( 1990 ) , as the hooker is undressing the fbi agent , she discards his badge saying '' we do n't need no stinkin ' badges '' in the ron howard film backdraft ( 1991 ) , william baldwin 's character tries to refresh his nephew 's memory by using a hand puppet to exclaim , '' spinach ? we do n't need no stinkin ' spinach ! '' in the film no code of conduct ( 1998 ) paul gleason 's character says in a bad mexican accent '' badges ? we do n't need no stinkin ' badges ! '' , then goes on to sheepishly mention that he was quoting from the 1974 film blazing saddles '' in the film zombie strippers ( 2008 ) , when paco ( joey medina ) is told to obtain some wild animals to dispose of the bodies , he says , '' badgers ? badgers ? we do n't need no stinking badgers in spike lee 's american war drama film da 5 bloods ( 2020 ) , when desroche 's gunmen first try to dispossess the bloods of the recovered gold bars , the leader of the gunmen tells paul , '' we do n't need no stinking official badges we do n't need no badges in the season 4 episode 10 , titled '' there goes the neighborhood '' , of the the a-team , when shown the town watch fake badges murdock says '' badges ? we do n't need no stinkin ' badges '' in the episode '' it 's a nice place to visit '' ( 33 , 1967 ) of the monkees , micky dolenz misquoted the line as '' badges ? we do n't need no stinking badges '' in the episode '' gumby with a pokey '' ( season 7 , episode 21 , may 17 , 2010 ) of two and a half men , berta and charlie are quoting movies while high , and berta says the line '' badges ? we do n't need no stinkin ' badges ! '' using a popsicle as a mustache jimmy , proclaims that '' we do n't need no stinkin ' badges ! '' before johnny and whatsername initiate an intimate moment in the center stage bed 