while many early panel shows stuck to the traditional quiz show format in which celebrities tried to get the right answers and win , the primary goal of modern panel shows is to entertain the audience with comedy , with the game or quiz structure providing subjects for the comedians to joke about panel shows also feature comedic banter , friendly ribbing and camaraderie among the panelists unquote and who said that ? feature quotations ; my word ! involves wordplay ; i 've got a secret is about secrecy ; to tell the truth and would i lie to you ? deal with lies ; and it pays to be ignorant and i 'm sorry i have n't a clue are parody frequently , a panel show features recurring panelists or permanent team captains , and some panelists appear on multiple panel shows such permanent panelists are often a-list celebrities who can become more famous for their work on panel shows than for the marginal fame that initially earned them the position on the show the first known example of a panel show in the world is the radio program information please , which debuted on 17 may 1938 on the nbc blue network an evolution of the quiz show format , information please added the key element of a panel of celebrities , largely writers and intellectuals , but also actors and politicians panel shows transferred to television early in the medium 's history , with the first known example being play the game , a charades show that aired on dumont and abc beginning in 1946 tv panel shows saw their peak of popularity in the 1950s and '60s , when cbs ran the three longest-running panel shows in prime time : what 's my line ? , i 've got a secret and to tell the truth these panel shows marked a shift in the format : whereas cbs ' primetime shows had panelists guessing secrets about the guests , these new shows largely had panelists playing games with guests both nbc 's and comedy central 's takes on panel shows emphasize points , competing and winning in the style of traditional game shows , with less focus on comedic banter between the panelists that can be found on british panel shows the word game call my bluff aired from 1965 to 2005 , the charades show give us a clue ran from 1979 to 1992 , and the improv game whose line is it anyway ? aired from 1988 to 1998 after hignfys success , panel shows have proliferated on british tv , including , among others , qi on various bbc channels since 2003 , mock the week on bbc two since 2005 , 8 out of 10 cats on channel 4 since 2005 , would i lie to you ? on bbc one since 2007 , and the annual special , the big fat quiz of the year on channel 4 since 2004 a revival of match game aired on the comedy network from 2012 to 2014 , the news quiz front page challenge aired on cbc television from 1957 to 1995 , and the charades show party game aired in syndication from 1970 to 1981 front page challenge good news week hollywood game night hollywood squares it 's news to me i 've got a secret match game password says you ! spicks and specks the debaters the marriage ref to tell the truth wait wait… do n't tell me ! what 's my line ? body language 